
		  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
hall.
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
		    NEAR THE FENDER,
		HEARTHRUG,
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
seem to dry me at all.'
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
feet high.
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
			   CHAPTER II
			   CHAPTER III
what did the archbishop find?'
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
the name again!'
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
			The Pool of Tears
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
them.
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
There was exactly one a-piece all round.
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
shore.
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
	    `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
	    `How doth the little crocodile
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
directions will look!
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
	      With gently smiling jaws!'
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
	    ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
	      Improve his shining tail,
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
	      On every golden scale!
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
uncomfortable.
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
and asking, `But who has won?'
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
	    And pour the waters of the Nile
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
	    And welcome little fishes in
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
energetic remedies--'
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
know what "it" means.'
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
politely:  `Did you speak?'
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
looking as solemn as she could.
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'
boots every Christmas.'
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
more if you'd rather not.'
more to be said.
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
	      How neatly spread his claws,
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
speech, they all cheered.
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
spoke.
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
prizes.'
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
cry again.
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
as he could go.
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
asked.
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
it advisable--"'
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
 'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
it's too bad, that it is!'
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
			(WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
eyes, but it said nothing.
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
