
hall.
them.
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
eyes, but it said nothing.
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
	    `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
what did the archbishop find?'
	    `How doth the little crocodile
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
	      With gently smiling jaws!'
feet high.
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
more if you'd rather not.'
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
		    NEAR THE FENDER,
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
more to be said.
seem to dry me at all.'
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
it's too bad, that it is!'
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
know what "it" means.'
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
cry again.
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
and asking, `But who has won?'
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
speech, they all cheered.
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
directions will look!
asked.
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
it advisable--"'
shore.
spoke.
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
as he could go.
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
There was exactly one a-piece all round.
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
prizes.'
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
	    ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
energetic remedies--'
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
			(WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
looking as solemn as she could.
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
uncomfortable.
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
the name again!'
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
	      How neatly spread his claws,
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
	      Improve his shining tail,
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
			The Pool of Tears
	    And pour the waters of the Nile
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
boots every Christmas.'
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
 'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
politely:  `Did you speak?'
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
			   CHAPTER II
			   CHAPTER III
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
		HEARTHRUG,
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
		  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
	      On every golden scale!
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
	    And welcome little fishes in
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
