
asked.
hall.
shore.
spoke.
them.
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
			(WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
eyes, but it said nothing.
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
as he could go.
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
boots every Christmas.'
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
 'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
There was exactly one a-piece all round.
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
the name again!'
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
	    `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
		  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
what did the archbishop find?'
	    `How doth the little crocodile
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
	      How neatly spread his claws,
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
	    And welcome little fishes in
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
politely:  `Did you speak?'
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
			   CHAPTER II
			   CHAPTER III
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
	      On every golden scale!
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
energetic remedies--'
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
uncomfortable.
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
cry again.
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--
	      With gently smiling jaws!'
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
speech, they all cheered.
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
feet high.
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
		HEARTHRUG,
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
more if you'd rather not.'
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
looking as solemn as she could.
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
			The Pool of Tears
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
	    And pour the waters of the Nile
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
prizes.'
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
	    ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
and asking, `But who has won?'
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
		    NEAR THE FENDER,
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
directions will look!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
more to be said.
seem to dry me at all.'
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
it's too bad, that it is!'
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
	      Improve his shining tail,
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
know what "it" means.'
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
