
asked.
hall.
prizes.'
shore.
spoke.
them.
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
speech, they all cheered.
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
cry again.
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
			(WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
	      How neatly spread his claws,
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
eyes, but it said nothing.
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
as he could go.
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
	      Improve his shining tail,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
	      With gently smiling jaws!'
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
boots every Christmas.'
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
more if you'd rather not.'
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
looking as solemn as she could.
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
know what "it" means.'
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
		    NEAR THE FENDER,
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
	    `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
what did the archbishop find?'
feet high.
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
directions will look!
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
it advisable--"'
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
and asking, `But who has won?'
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
	    And welcome little fishes in
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
politely:  `Did you speak?'
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
the name again!'
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
more to be said.
seem to dry me at all.'
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
			The Pool of Tears
it's too bad, that it is!'
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
uncomfortable.
	    `How doth the little crocodile
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
			   CHAPTER II
			   CHAPTER III
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
		HEARTHRUG,
	      On every golden scale!
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
	    ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
energetic remedies--'
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
	    And pour the waters of the Nile
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
		  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
 'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
There was exactly one a-piece all round.
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
