
asked.
hall.
prizes.'
shore.
spoke.
them.
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
looking as solemn as she could.
more to be said.
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
seem to dry me at all.'
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
	      Improve his shining tail,
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
			   CHAPTER II
			   CHAPTER III
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'
	    ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
speech, they all cheered.
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'
more if you'd rather not.'
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
 'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
There was exactly one a-piece all round.
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
know what "it" means.'
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
	    And welcome little fishes in
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
what did the archbishop find?'
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
the name again!'
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
		    NEAR THE FENDER,
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
	    `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
feet high.
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
energetic remedies--'
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'
cry again.
and asking, `But who has won?'
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
			The Pool of Tears
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
			(WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
	      With gently smiling jaws!'
it's too bad, that it is!'
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
directions will look!
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
as he could go.
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
	    And pour the waters of the Nile
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
uncomfortable.
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
it advisable--"'
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
		  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
	    `How doth the little crocodile
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
	      How neatly spread his claws,
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
		HEARTHRUG,
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
eyes, but it said nothing.
boots every Christmas.'
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
politely:  `Did you speak?'
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
	      On every golden scale!
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
