
		HEARTHRUG,
asked.
cry again.
feet high.
hall.
prizes.'
shore.
spoke.
them.
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
politely:  `Did you speak?'
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
 'That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
There was exactly one a-piece all round.
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
know what "it" means.'
eyes, but it said nothing.
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
energetic remedies--'
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
	    `How doth the little crocodile
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
uncomfortable.
the name again!'
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
it's too bad, that it is!'
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
it advisable--"'
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
			(WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
more to be said.
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
		    NEAR THE FENDER,
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
and asking, `But who has won?'
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
	      On every golden scale!
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
speech, they all cheered.
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
			   CHAPTER II
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
	    ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
			   CHAPTER III
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
	      Improve his shining tail,
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
as he could go.
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
	      With gently smiling jaws!'
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
	    And welcome little fishes in
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
			The Pool of Tears
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
more if you'd rather not.'
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
		  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
	    `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
boots every Christmas.'
seem to dry me at all.'
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
looking as solemn as she could.
directions will look!
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
what did the archbishop find?'
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
	    And pour the waters of the Nile
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
	      How neatly spread his claws,
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
