












































































































































































































                             and
                            CHAPTER V
                           CHAPTER II
                           CHAPTER III
                           CHAPTER IV
                          cause,
                         Said
                         With
                         whole
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
                        The Pool of Tears
                        condemn
                        denial; We
                       I'll take no
                       death."'
                       you
                      old Fury:
                      to
                      try the
                     "I'll
                     must have a
                     no jury
                    Advice from a Caterpillar
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                    YOU.  --Come,
                    `Fury said to a
                    cunning
                   be jury,"
                   dear Sir,
                   mouse, That he
                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale
                  or judge,
                  prosecute
                 a trial,
                 judge, I'll
                 met in the
                 trial:  For
                HEARTHRUG,
                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill
                law:  I will
                would be
               "I'll be
               cur, "Such
               house,
              How neatly spread his claws,
              Improve his shining tail,
              On every golden scale!
              With gently smiling jaws!'
              both go to
              breath."
              really this
              wasting
             mouse to the
             our
            "Let us
            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
            And pour the waters of the Nile
            And welcome little fishes in
            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
            `How doth the little crocodile
           Said the
           morning I've
          nothing
         *       *       *       *       *       *
         to do."
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'
      And argued each case with my wife;
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
      Be off, or I'll kick you down stairs!'
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'
      For anything tougher than suet;
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'
      Said his father; `don't give yourself airs!
      That your eye was as steady as ever;
      What made you so awfully clever?'
      Why, I do it again and again.'
      `And your hair has become very white;
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *
     *       *       *       *       *       *       *
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
    Do you think I can listen all day to such stuff?
    Yet you balanced an eel on the end of your nose--
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
    `I have answered three questions, and that is enough,'
    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
  Alice folded her hands, and began:--
  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
  Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
  Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not
  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.
  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
  The Mouse only growled in reply.
  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
  The great question certainly was, what?  Alice looked all round
  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
  This sounded promising, certainly:  Alice turned and came back
  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.
  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.
  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.
  `Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her.  `I've something
  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.
  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.
  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.
  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.
  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.
  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'
  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
  `Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as
  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.
  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
  `Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.
  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
  `No,' said the Caterpillar.
  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.
  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.
  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'
  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.
  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.
  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.
  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.
  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'
  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')
  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
  `That is not said right,' said the Caterpillar.
  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.
  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;
  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.
  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.
  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.
  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
  `Why?' said the Caterpillar.
  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
  `You!' said the Caterpillar contemptuously.  `Who are YOU?'
  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
Alice, and sighing.
Alice.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
Dinah at you!'
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
HERE.'
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
I must have been changed several times since then.'
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
I think that will be the best plan.'
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'
I'm not myself, you see.'
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one old Magpie began
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
There was exactly one a-piece all round.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
`Explain yourself!'
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
`What are you thinking of?'
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'
afraid that it would be offended again.
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
again, and said, `So you think you're changed, do you?'
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
again.
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman--
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
and asking, `But who has won?'
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
as he could go.
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.
asked.
at it!'
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
away!'
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
barrowful will do, to begin with.'
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
beginning to see its meaning.
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
boots every Christmas.'
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like THAT!'
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
cold if she did not get dry very soon.
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
conversation.  Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
cry again.
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
directions will look!
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
distance.
distant green leaves.
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
don't want to stay in here any longer!'
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
easily offended!'
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
energetic remedies--'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
eyes, but it said nothing.
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
far below her.
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
feel it a little queer, won't you?'
feet high.
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
fills the whole window!'
finish his story.
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
foot!
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
gloves.
go down the chimney!'
good many voices all talking together:  she made out the words:
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
hall.
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
hearing.  For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
height to be.'
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
her head made her look up in a great hurry.
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
her violently with its wings.
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
herself.
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular--
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
important to say!'
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
inches high).
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
it advisable--"'
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
it's too bad, that it is!'
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
know what "it" means.'
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
like a sky-rocket!'
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'
looking as solemn as she could.
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  Her first
more if you'd rather not.'
more to be said.
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
much!'
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
of her or of anything else.
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
of the sort.
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
offended, you know!'
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
patience of an oyster!'
people about like that!'
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
politely:  `Did you speak?'
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'
prizes.'
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.
quicker.
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'
reason to be afraid of it.
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
room at all for any lesson-books!'
said the Lory.
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seem to dry me at all.'
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.
she could.
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
shore.
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
silence.
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
some of the other birds tittered audibly.
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
speech, they all cheered.
spoke.
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
suppose.'
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
the fifth bend, I think?'
the little door, had vanished completely.
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
the name again!'
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
the other side will make you grow shorter.'
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
them.
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.
thick wood.
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
trying to explain the mistake it had made.
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
uncomfortable.
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
what did the archbishop find?'
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
words have got altered.'
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
