			   CHAPTER II
			(WITH ALICE'S LOVE).
			The Pool of Tears
		    NEAR THE FENDER,
		HEARTHRUG,
	    ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
as he could go.
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
boots every Christmas.'
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
cry again.
directions will look!
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
hall.
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
